# Ecommerce sales analysis report

---
## Introduction
This report depicts the sales analysis report of an ecommerce company in the United States. We used data in an excel file shared with us by our instructor. We also cleaned the dataset and then went ahead to carryout analysis using pivot tables. We then created charts from these pivot tables in order to answer our business questions. We focused on a number of business questions which included but were not limited to:

•	What is the customer with the highest Profit
•	Which mode of shipping has the highest sales 
•	Which category generates the highest profit by year?  
•	What region has the highest orders?

---
## Data cleaning 
• Data cleaning was carried out on Microsoft excel after which an analysis using pivot tables was done.
• Pivot charts were generated from the pivot tables analysis
• Data set was checked for duplicates, null values and blank spaces
• Data set was checked for duplicates, null values and blank spaces
• A table was inserted to make data analysis seamless. 

---
## Data wrangling

• The first step is to identify the quality of the data set before it is used for analysis. The data set was checked for missing values, duplicate data , and unusual pattern in the data set.
• This involves creating an extra column called "cost" from the sales and profit columns to determine the correlation between these two columns with respect to the different product categories. In addition, unrecognized naming methods were rectified.
• Missing values and duplicate values were checked for to ensure data integrity
• After ensuring that quality issues were resolved and transformation was complete, the movie_updated data set was ready for analysis.
• This process ensures that the dataset is reliable, consistent, and ready to yield accurate insights for various research, machine learning, or data visualization tasks.

---
## Analysis

### Summary analysis
Total revenue **$2.3million**
Total profit **$286.40**k which is **12.5%** of revenue
Average revenue **$229.86k**
Average profit **$28.66k**
There were 17 sub-categories with a total of 9, 994 orders.

### General analysis
  #### Top 10 customers by profit 
  Tamara Chand emerged as the customer who brought the most profit for the company with a profit of $ 8,981.32 amounting to 31% of the total profit.  Tamara 
  Chand might be a loyal customer or bulk buying customer. However, it doesn’t indicate so when we analyzed the customer with the most discount. 

  #### Customer with the highest discount
  It is shown that Zuschuss Caroll is the customer who enjoys discounts the most with a value of 7.9%. This could be due to her bulk purchases or her loyalty to the company.

  ### Highest order by region
  The western region had the highest order of 3,200,000 orders which amounts to 32% of total orders. This could be that more supply of consumables since consumables had the 
  the highest number of customers as shown below.

  ### Highest number of customers by segment 
  The consumer had the highest number of segments with a large share of 52%. This is probably due to the higher demand for consumables which are necessities consumers need 
  in their daily lives. 

  ### Highest sales by shipping mode
  Most of the total sales were generated by standard class shipping mode because most customers preferred to use this shipping mode unlike same day shipping mode which was 
  the least. This is probably one of the reasons why standard shipping incurred the highest cost aside from demand.

  ### Category with the highest profit by year, Category by total Sales, Category by total cost
  In 2011, office supplies and technology had about the same profit amounting to $20k which indicates an increase by 42.4% by 2014. This might be due to both categories 
  hitting almost the same sales and also incurring almost the same costs in that year. Although Furniture also incurred almost the same costs in the year, it was not the   
  case for its profits and sales.
  
  In 2014, the profits of technology increased to about $50.7k from the initial $20k in 2011, this represents a 42.4% increase in profit. The probable cause of this may 
  have been the ability to resell technology and software as a subscription service per user, without having to build from scratch as opposed to other products like office 
  supplies and furniture.
  
  In the same year, office supplies realized a profit of $39.8k which represents a 43% increase from 2011. The probable cause of this could be the ability of new employees 
  to use the general supplies purchased by each company, as opposed to purchasing new office supplies per individual.
  In general, technology realized a profit of $145.5k between 2011 and 2014, while furniture had a total profit of $18451.373k. This brings us to the conclusion that 
  technology generated about 51% of profits for the company compared to furniture.
  
  From the year 2011 to 2014, the total sales realized from the technology category was $836,154.03k while that of furniture was $719,047.03k. The difference in the total 
  sales between these two categories is $117,107. Although from the sales figures, we may deduce that the difference in sales between these two categories is not very high, 
  we now understand that the profits realized from these two categories were significantly different, with technology being a better product to sell.
  
  Looking at the cost of the categories, our data shows that it costs $836k for technology which realized a profit of 145.5k, while furniture costs $742k and a profit of 
  $185k. The probable cause for the company’s choice to continue with the business of producing and selling the furniture may be having inadequate information or data or 
  knowing that the sale of office furniture may help drive the sale of technology and office supplies.

  ### Average profit by month
  We looked at the profits realized in each month from 2011 to 2014 and the data shows that the company experienced the worst business period in January of 2012. There was     about $56.57 recorded loss. The month of July also recorded a loss of $5.88.
  The probable cause of this may have been a loss of a customer’s account/business or fewer office activities due to a public holiday or office break. The months of April, May,   June, and September recorded stability throughout these years.
  March of 2012 and October of 2013 recorded profits of $72.03 and $82.97 in profits respectively. These are outliers when compared to the data available for the other       
  months. The probable cause of this may have been a busy business period with fewer or no public holidays. Other probable causes may have been the acquisition of a new   
  customer or an increase in orders by an existing customer.
  In summary, the data shows that 2013 had the best-recorded profits when compared month on month, with $31.68 while 2011 was the lowest with $24.86. This is a difference of   $6.82.
  
---
## Conclusion and Recommendation
In conclusion, our data infers that investing more in the technology category will help to boost the total profit and growth of the company if they are profit-driven.  This does not imply that they drop the sales of the other categories as we are aware that in business, the sale of some items may drive the sale of others. They may consider investing more in the category that generates more profits which may enable them to grow and scale faster.
Additionally, the company might want to look to expanding to other region since the western region already had a lot of awareness about their products.
More so, the customer who brings in the highest profit should enjoy the most discounts if we take a look from the profit perspective.














